Aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa
The sea lay blue to the far horizon. Blue—Ah, blue is but a name
till you have seen the sea that breaks around the Bahamas and gives
anchorage to the tall ships at Port Royal; that great sheet of blue
water stretching from Cape Catoche to the Windward Islands, and from
Yucatan to beyond the Bahamas, studded with banks and keys and reefs,
the old sea of the Buccaneers shot over with the doings of Kidd and
Singleton and Horne.

The gods had been very good to Gaspard and Yves, and Gaspard had,
by the direction of the gods, been the salvation of Yves. The whole
catastrophe had come like a clap of thunder on a moonlit sea. The
“Haa-r _rip_” of the reef that had been waiting a million years for the
_Rhone_, the screaming of scalding steam and scalded men, a wild bellow
from the siren, the roar of the boilers opening out, and the shout of
the lifting decks, all that, so thunderous and apocalyptic, so full of
tragedy, and torment, and woe, filled the night for a moment for miles
around, and then there was nothing but the moonlit sea.

Yves was a good swimmer, but his heart had gone out in him; he had been
held down under water by the suck of the sinking ship, and he would
have drowned to a certainty only for Gaspard, who was a bad swimmer but
a bad drowner.

The wiry Provençal, courageous as a rat, had held Yves’ head above
water till Yves felt the sea slapping him in the face and saw a great
spar lifting and dripping in the moonlight; saw Gaspard seize the spar,
a picture almost instantaneous, a picture that told him at once the
truth and made him strike out for safety.

The set of the current had carried the spar to the islet. One might
have fancied that the sea, repenting for that sin of hers, had
determined to save these two last survivors of the _Rhone_. But the sea
cared for the men as much as she cared for the spar—less, for they
were lighter.

Boxes and crates had come drifting ashore, getting caught and tangled
in the reef-mesh to eastward of the islet; a horrible abundance of
provisions, all sorts of articles from the cargo, corpses, spars,
everything yet nothing, pounding about in the desolate reef-strewn
water, made the east side of the islet a place to avoid.

The two men in the few days since the wreck had salved enough food
to last them for months, there was a spring of water amidst the low
bay-cedar bushes that stretched from shore edge to shore edge, the
islet was in a trade track, and they were certain of near rescue; all
these circumstances made them easy of mind and made a holiday of the
episode.

Gaspard having cleaned the pipe to his satisfaction, filled it with
tobacco and lit it. Then he lay on his back with his head in the
scanty shade of the palm fronds, the peak of his cap over his eyes, the
smoke from his pipe curling upwards in the windless air.
Aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa

The old interminable song of the French navy immortalized by Loti
sang in the ears of the Moco as he lay, blissful, forgetful, seeing
pictures, dreaming dreams.

Now he was in the stokehold of the _Rhone_ feeding furnace No. 2. He
could feel the cotton waste protecting his hands from the heat of the
rake; he could hear the clatter of the ash lift and the boom of the sea.



Hi! Hi! Hi! It was the very voices of the men hauling on the halyards;
he could see the topsails bellying to the wind, the great sails held
hard against the blue, the yards, the studding sail booms; away from
years ago and across three thousand miles of sea came the voices of the
men hauling in chorus, echoes from the past answering the lamentable
crying of the gulls.

And now the _Tamalpais_ went to pieces, became a curl of smoke,
vanished, and he was on the wharves of Marseilles, in a bar standing
before a zinc counter, a chopin of wine, and a girl.

Ah! that was it, the girl; some piece of grit had been irritating
his mind for the last few minutes, something behind his laziness and
happiness had been working for his discomfort; we all know that feeling
when the subconscious self is grumbling or worrying over something that
the conscious self has forgotten for a moment.
Aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa
Anisette was the name she went by; a pale-faced, undersized girl. You
would not, possibly, have looked at her twice, but had you done so you
would, were you a man, certainly have looked at her a third time.
Aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa